Consider now a case that began in a small town but ended up before the Supreme Court of
the United States.
The main issue with the Stratton Ohio Court case was that the village of Stratton was requiring
Jehovah's Witnesses to obtain a permit from the town before Jehovah's Witnesses engaged
in their door-to-door public ministry.
They very specifically did not want Jehovah's Witnesses knocking on their doors.
The ordinances that were enacted were specifically designed to restrict the activity of Jehovah's
Witnesses.
The issue really came to a head with a group of our sisters who were engaged in return
visits and the mayor said to them, people moved to Stratton because they know they don't
have to be bothered by Jehovah's Witnesses.
The witnesses tried to work the matter out with the municipality, with the village.
There was communication, there was dialogue, but the village was insistent that
our brothers and sisters obtained permits prior to going from door to door.
The decision was made to bring the case to court.
We brought the case in Federal District Court in Ohio.
The Federal District Court judge ruled against us.
So we appealed in the federal system up to the United States quarter of appeals for the
sixth circuit.
They ruled against us in a two-to-one decision.
There were similar cases in the past in the 1930s and 1940s, but the Supreme Court hadn't
really addressed the matter for decades.
So it was now a question in a new era where those cases still controlling law.
This issue of going door to door that was raised in Stratton, Ohio, caught the attention
of the attorney generals of many states, and quite a number of them joined in friend
of the court or Amicus briefs in support of the position taken by the Attorney General
of Ohio.
So we were confronting not just the opposition from state authorities in Ohio, but the opposition
to our witnessing effort on the part of other states who also agreed that Jehovah's Witnesses
should have their rights limited as they try to engage in their door to door activity.
To take the matter on appeal to the Supreme Court, would run the risk of perhaps diluting
victories that we had obtained in the 40s and 50s.
But the governing body when they considered this issue did not focus on whether this case
might undermine these earlier decisions.
The simple question was, do the authorities have the right to restrict our door to door
activity in Stratton, Ohio?
We'll hear our next number 001737, the Watchtower Bible and Track Society of New York versus
the village of Stratton, Ohio.
It's 11 o'clock Saturday morning in the village of Stratton.
Good morning.
In light of recent events, I've made a special effort to come to your door to speak to you
about what the prophet Isaiah has referred to as the good news of something better.
That's the good news Christ Jesus spoke about, the good news of the kingdom of God.
It is a criminal act to go from door to door on the village of Stratton and deliver that
message, unless one has first obtained a permit from the village to do so.
You know, we go into it, we prepare from a secular vantage point as hard as we can.
We do all our good work, all our efforts.
We throw our arrows to the ground, but ultimately it's Jehovah's Battle.
But our task is not to win at all cost.
Our task is to prepare so that if it be Jehovah's will, we can prevail.
And I do remember that moment before the argument, because you stand in front of them and
the way the court has constructed with the podium, they, you're very close to them.
Almost as close as you and I are, but they sit up a little higher and they surround you.
So the only thing that you see is them.
And you stand there and you wait for the chief justice who at that time was William Rinkwist
to announce the case and invite you to speak.
And I remember I was there for a few seconds, maybe 10, 15 seconds.
And I realized the enormity of what was about to take place.
And I prayed and I knew that Jehovah would help and he did.
One of the things that impressed me in the oral argument before the Supreme Court with
regard to Stratton was the respect that the Supreme Court justices accorded to Brother
Paulador and myself.
Quite to the contrary, when the representatives of Ohio and the municipality stood to present
their argument, their assertions were met with open cynicism on the part of the justices.
You think it's, it's a beautiful idea that I have to ask the government for permission
before I go down the block where I don't know all of the people I waived to them but I
don't really know them.
I say I want to talk to you because I'm concerned about the garbage pickup because I'm
concerned about our Congress and whatever.
I have to ask the government before I can do that.
No you're not.
But we are talking about our canvassers, hawkers and those who are going door to door
for a cause.
Well how about trick-or-treaters?
Do they have to go get a permit?
Under this ordinance it looks like it doesn't it?
You're not.
And they're soliciting too.
They are.
So in rather sweeping language the U.S. Supreme Court struck down the village of Stratton's
ordinance.
Initially, we won a certain degree and did not win to a certain degree before one of
the lower courts.
The governing body in theory could have taken the approach well, this somewhat victory,
somewhat defeat, only limits our witnessing activity in the state of Ohio.
So we'll leave it at that.
Of course that's not an option.
When Jehovah tells us to engage in the ministry and when Jesus says to make disciples of people
of all the nations, that includes everyone.
Well we couldn't do this on our own.
When you think about this we're battling governmental entities.
In the Stratton case it was the village of Stratton, the state of Ohio, as well as a number
of other states that came in in opposition.
We're just a handful of brothers and sisters.
Jehovah God is obviously supporting and blessing us.